I cement next up we've got a subject
that divides the internet cat versus dog
we're going to see which ones are better
drinker
they don't have the same cheek muscles
that we do so they can't create section
okay so they will find some way of
getting it back to get water if they map
but their tongue morphology is
completely different if you've been
licked by a cat it's quite scratchy and
they've got these things called papillae
which made out of keratin on their
tongue pointing up like little spikes
okay
and so they drink the water and almost
serve scratch it like they do on your
skin and scoop it up without actually
breaking the surface of the water
whereas dogs do it completely
differently they don't have this of
scratchy tongue they sort of do a scoop
bucket let's see what the difference is
yeah right so this is a mirror another
member of the earth unplugged team Amira
who's this this is Percy he's partly
Burmese give it a girl I reckon
that look at you pulls it amazing isn't
it so that's always hooks on that tongue
literally pulling the milk up oh it
really sort of hooks it right isn't it
that's extraordinary I knew how it
worked in theory but never has he seen
it like that nowhere near as good as
that and you can see he's not sort of
scooping it he's going just along the
surface and pulling it up so I reckon
it's probably time for our next
contestant in that case this is mum why
he's my dog he's three years old he's
gonna be next up I cover leave how easy
that was
you
ilex brilliant cuz the cat is kind of
pulling it he's kind of chucking it up
and then shutting his mouth before it
gets a chance to fall back out again
that looks terrific he does the scoop
okay
he really does and you can see it just
helps him keep his whiskers out of the
water cause he's using those to sense
the world around him if he's got a long
happy tongue and it doesn't really
matter if his whiskers are above the
surface and you can see how thin these
cheeks are so there's got no muscle to
create that section lovely nice so
lovely mug doesn't seem to like the
water much more if the width you might
spice up a little bit of milk yeah
nice to you really nice good thing to
see how much sort of bigger and flatter
that tongue it so they really monopolize
the size of their time whereas cats just
going for that spiky surface area cool
happy with that yep Moby's celebration
for winning the lapping so you think the
dog won I think the dog was definitely
better than a cat
the cat was interest hold water through
the air in the count the cat was you
know delicate the dog was raw and just
drawing in all that water let us know
viewers what do you think dog vs. cat
email not sporting a pair of whiskers
permanently is us take mug here sure
enough his whiskers aren't as noticeable
as a cat and aren't as flamboyant as a
shrews but they definitely do exactly
the same job